---
num: "h03"
desc: "Homework 3"
ready: false
assigned: 2016-09-29 14:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2016-10-04 14:00:00.00-7:00
---
Read Chapter 2, sections 2.1 thru 2.3   (If you do not have a copy of the textbook yet, there is one on reserve at the library under "COMP000-STAFF - Permanent Reserve").

{% include no_staples_box.html %}

Some of these problems are easier to think about and solve if you try them out in an actual C++ program. You are encouraged to do so - although it is, strictly speaking, not a requirement to solve these problems. Please follow the directions carefully, as grading will be based on what these directions are.

<ol markdown="1">
1.	(2 pts) Show 2 different ways to initialize variables in C++.
  <div style="margin-bottom:8em"></div>

1.	(2 pts) Is this variable declaration statement in C++ a good one? Why or why not?
	<div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
`double union=30.00;`

  <div style="margin-bottom:8em"></div>

1.	(2 pts) How do you write in ONE LINE in C++: Add a to b and subtract that sum from c, then divide that result by d?
	<div style="margin-bottom:8em"></div>

1.	(2 pts) What will appear on the monitor/display when the following C++ statement is executed?
	<div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
`cout << "My dog likes to eat\t" << 5 << " cans of dog food a day" << " !" << endl;`

  <div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

1.	(12 pts) Write a short program that asks the user to input three double type inputs from the keyboard, the program then shows the user what the two numbers entered was. It then multiplies them together, and displays the answer within 4 decimal places.
  <div class="pagebreak"></div>


1.	(4 pts) What will the following statements print out in C++?
  <div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
`int x(35), y(5);`
  <div style="margin-bottom:0.5em"></div>
`bool v, w;`
  <div style="margin-bottom:0.5em"></div>
`v = (x >= y);`
  <div style="margin-bottom:0.5em"></div>
`w = ((x/y) = 7);`
  <div style="margin-bottom:0.5em"></div>
`cout << v << w << endl;`

  <div style="margin-bottom:8em"></div>

1.	(16 pts) Write a C++ program that takes as input from the user, their favorite integer number and their name. The program then, says "Hello, (user name here), your favorite number is (user favorite number here)!". Then the program will will multiply the number they gave you by 5, then multiply that result again by 5, then multiply THAT result AGAIN by 5. The program HAS to do so using one of the C++ shorthands we discussed in class.
	<div style="margin-bottom:0.5em"></div>
Finally, the program should say "I took your number and multiplied it by 5 THREE times and the result was: (the resulting number here)."
You CANNOT write this program using ANY loop statements.

</ol>
