---
num: "h04"
desc: "Homework 4"
ready: false
assigned: 2016-10-04 14:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2016-10-06 14:00:00.00-7:00
---
{% include no_staples_box.html %}
Read Chapter 2 and Ch 3.1 (If you do not have a copy of the textbook yet, there is one on reserve at the library under "COMP000-STAFF - Permanent Reserve").

<ol markdown="1">
1.	(2 pts) What is flow control?
  <div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

2.	(2 pts) Which Boolean operator, when used with 2 logic expressions, yields TRUE only if both expressions are TRUE?
  <div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

3.	(2 pts) What is wrong with this C++ expression?
  <div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
  <div markdown="1">
```
if (size = 4)
   cout << "The size is too small";
```
  </div>
  <div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

4.	(4 pts) Write an if-else statement that outputs the word High if the value of the variable score is greater than 100 and Low if the value of score is at most 100? The variable score is of type int. 
  <div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

5.	(6 pts) Show the output of this code if x is of type int.
<div markdown="1">
`x = 10;`
`while ( x > 0) {`
`	cout << x << endl;`
`	x = x – 3;`
` }`
<\div>
  <div style="margin-bottom:10em"></div>
 
  <div class="pagebreak"></div>

6.	(6 pts) Write a while loop that prints out these 11 lines: 
"COUNTDOWN TO ZERO: 10"
"COUNTDOWN TO ZERO: 9"
...
"COUNTDOWN TO ZERO: 1"
"COUNTDOWN TO ZERO: LIFT OFF!"
  <div style="margin-bottom:10em"></div>

7.	(12 pts)  What is the result of the following Boolean operations, given that: x = 7, y = 10, z = 12
a) (x == 6)
b) !(y > 0)
c) ((x == 6) || (y < 20))
d) ((x >= 3) && (z <= 12))
e) ((x > y) && (y < z))
f) ((!(x < z) || (y > z)) && (z == 12) && (y == 10))

8.	(20 pts) Write a program that ask the user what shape they want to find the area to: a rectangle, a triangle, a trapezoid, or a circle. Based on the user choice, get the pertinent parameters from the user and then calculate the area.
Plan this out well: what are the variables that you'll need? What type will each be?
You must:
	a) Utilize comments in the program to tell us what you're doing
	b) Declare at least one constant in the program
	c) Format your answers so that they are readable on the display. This means watch for your use of "\n" characters and for formatting of decimal places in displayed numbers.
	d) Test this program out by compiling it and running it. 
When you are sure that you have a working program, attach a print out of it to this homework sheet - REMEMBER TO PUT YOUR FULL NAME AND ID# ON THIS SHEET! You will be graded for programming style as well as for functionality correctness.

